- Group meeting is not a status update.  If it was, we would just do it via email.  In our meeting we'd like to dive into the details of things that aren't working, ask lots of questions, and discuss ideas.  This isn't the time for polished or perfect results.  Pictures are more helpful than just words.  You should prepare at least one image (figure, chart, etc.) every time so we can see what's going on.  It may be uncomfortable to share results that you know are "bad", but if you learn to embrace the discomfort we will progress much more effectively.

- Collaboration is a plus.  Don't worry about your territory and whether or not someone else's topic overlaps with your own.  Collaboration often leads to better ideas and better outcomes.  Just focus on doing good work, and it will all work out.

- We focus on journal publications and not the thesis/dissertation.  If you publish journal publications then you will have a dissertation.  The opposite is not necessarily true.  Many effective dissertations are literally four journal papers put back to back with an overall introduction and conclusion added.  The other option is to take journal papers and pull out common material into an overall intro and conclusion, and leave the heart of each paper as a chapter. Either way, once you have the journal papers, putting together the dissertation is much easier.  If a lot of your papers involve collaboration (see point above), that's great.  In the dissertation just be upfront about what your specific contributions were.  

- Summer is almost always the most productive time for accelerating your research, and represents almost 50% of your work year.  However, a summer internship can still be worthwhile to pursue especially if it is aligned with your research, or is somewhere you want to work at after graduation.  Before applying, make sure you come meet with me so we can discuss timing, possible destinations, and any sponsor obligations that exist with your current funding.  Usually, there is only time for one internship as a graduate student so we'll want to make it count (and generally it's more impactful towards the end of your graduate studies).  An alternative is a visiting researcher position, which may be even more valuable and can be more frequent because you will make progress in your research.

- I encourage you to get know each other and catch up on each other's work and personal lives.  One of the best treasures you'll take away from your time as a graduate student (if you invest in it) is your relationships with your fellow labmates.

- I encourage you to attend the BYU Devotionals/Forums. By attend, I mean actually go up to the Marriott center and not just watch from your computer. It may feel difficult to give up an hour (and some weeks it may not work out), but I think you will find that it is time well spent. In addition to spiritual insights, I often receive promptings or ideas regarding our work. It is a special privilege to be there and one that can easily be taken for granted.  As a bonus, walking up together can be a great time to catch up (see previous point).
