# Productivity

Here are some tips from productivity research that I have found to be most helpful. Adapt as needed.

- Completely eliminate distractions (e.g., shut down email, slack, social media, notifications, etc.). This may be hard to do at first, but you will be **far** more effective with focused periods of work punctuated by breaks, as compared to longer sessions with distractions.  Don't try to "multitask".  Periodic breaks are necessary to maintain focus at a high level.  A typical optimal ratio is approximately 1 hour work / 10 minutes break.  Taking a walk is more restorative than surfing the web.

- Do the hardest and most important thing(s) first each day, or more generally at the times when your energy is highest.  Tasks that are urgent (i.e., homework, things with deadlines) command our attention.  However, it is often the case that the things that are the most urgent are not the most important.  You need to put the "big rocks" (most important items) in your schedule first, then let the other things fit in or eliminate them if they are nonessential.  The corollary to this, is don't start your day by opening email (or slack, etc.). You'll want to be able to set your priorities and focus your attention.  By opening your inbox you're basically allowing others to set your priorities.

- You'd be amazed what you can accomplish with short but consistent efforts.  Research on writers suggests that they are *a lot* more productive when they write a little each day, as compared to more sporadic marathon sessions.  Figure out what is most important, and make sure you are doing at least a little bit each day on your most important tasks.

- We generally use three levels of planning.  First, you need to step back and periodically reevaluate your long term goals and objectives.  In our lab we set [OKRs](https://rework.withgoogle.com/guides/set-goals-with-okrs/steps/introduction/) in a shared lab spreadsheet each semester.  Focus on what is essential and impactful, and let nonessential things drop away.  There are a lot of good things one could do, but you need to make sure you are focused on what is best.

- Next we set "sprint goals", or goals that have about a 2 week time frame (ranging from 1-4 weeks as appropriate).  These sprint goals should be derived from the OKRs, and they give us something to focus on that we know will help us to our bigger goals. 

- Finally, we make daily plans to move forward on our current sprint goals.  Some people like to plan in the morning, and some like to plan at the end of the day.  Of course, some adaptability is always needed, but without a schedule you are likely to spend too long on things that don't need that much attention, or to put off things that are hard because you don't feel like them at the moment.  Having the discipline to follow your schedule, and learning how to schedule effectively, will help you make progress towards your important goals, and help you avoid last minute scrambles.  

- Be results oriented.  It is easy in research to let less important pursuits consume too much attention because they are easier.  For example, one can get caught up in excessive planning, code documentation, feature development, or code testing (all important, but can distract from the essential).

- Set boundaries.  You need to take care of your mental, physical, and spiritual health or your productivity will plummet.  Ensuring that you exercise and get adequate sleep is essential.  Honoring the Sabbath Day is not just good for your spiritual health, but a weekly complete break from work is good for your mental health.  You will need to set boundaries on your evenings.  Sometimes you'll still need to work in the evenings, but be deliberate about it as opposed to being in an always-on email-checking state.

- Usually the most important things we work on don't come with deadlines.  You'll need to learn to set and enforce your own milestones.  Setting them is easier, but enforcing them is hard.  Too often people blow by their own deadlines, and if there are no real consequences they rationalize and just make new deadlines.  Adaptability is always important, but treat your deadlines like you would homework or any other hard deadline.  Create real consequences if necessary.  Even better than negative consequences, create compelling rewards for achieving your internal deadlines.  

- Batch less important tasks.  Email/Slack/Texting should be done in batches.  It's much more efficient to wait a few hours and respond to 10 messages in one short sitting, then to respond to them sporadically throughout the day.  Keep a list of short tasks that need to be done.  When you only have a few minutes, and it would be ineffective to start on something new, you can knock out a few of these short tasks.

- Network.  Don't underestimate the importance of networking.  Get to know the other students and faculty members around you.  Use your breaks effectively and have lunch with other people.  Don't be afraid to email or approach people whose names are on the research papers you are reading.  More often than not they will be happy to talk to you about their work.  At the same time, look for opportunities to mentor and help others.

- At the end of the day, keep in mind that productivity is not the real goal.  Its a means to an ends.  Don't let yourself get caught up in defining your worth by your productivity.  You should maintain a hunger for growth or improvement, but never devalue your own great worth.
